ONE MICROPHONE ON SAY
OK, I'M GETTING SOME LET'S JUST
MUTE, OK, NO PROBLEM.
THAT WAS THAT WAS GREAT.
>> THAT'S WHAT EVERYONE GETS TO
HEAR, HUH?
OK, WELCOME TO THE NOVEMBER
13TH, 2025 MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION.
I AM CHAIRPERSON DAVID ROCKLYN
AND THE TIME IS SEVEN O'CLOCK
P.M. WE WILL BEGIN THE MEETING
WITH SOME NOTES ABOUT THE
FORMAT.
>> SO FOR REMOTE PARTICIPATION
IN THIS MEETING IS AVAILABLE BY
TELEPHONE OR THROUGH ONLINE
VIDEO CONFERENCING.
PLEASE SEE THE MEETING AGENDA
FOR REMOTE PARTICIPATION
CONTACT INFORMATION INCLUDING
PHONE NUMBERS AND THE WEBLINK
PUBLIC COMMENT IS AVAILABLE IN
PERSON OR BY TELEPHONE DURING
THE PUBLIC COMMENT AGENDA ITEM
AND DURING EACH PUBLIC HEARING
.
>> FINALLY, HERE'S AN OVERVIEW
OF THE SEQUENCE OF EVENTS FOR
EACH HEARING ON THE AGENDA.
FIRST PLANNING SERVICES STAFF
WILL DELIVER THEIR REPORT
FOLLOWED BY A REPORT FROM THIS
MONTH'S COMMISSIONER REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
THEN THE APPLICANT WILL PROVIDE
THEIR PRESENTATION AND ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS FROM THE
COMMISSIONERS.
AT THAT POINT THE HEARING WILL
BE OPEN FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
FOLLOWING PUBLIC COMMENT, THE
COMMISSION WILL MAKE A MOTION
AND DISCUSS THE APPLICATION
FINALLY, THE APPROVAL FROM A
MAJORITY OF COMMISSIONERS
PRESENT WILL BE REQUIRED FOR A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
TO BE GRANTED WILL NOW MOVE ON
TO ROLL CALL MISS THATCHER WILL
YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL
COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN HEAR
COMMISSIONER CALDERON
COMMISSIONER KAPLIN HEAR
COMMISSIONER SMITH PRESENT
COMMISSIONER ROS PRESENT
COMMISSIONER ISPAT PRESENT
COMMISSIONER CARTER PRESENT YOU
HAVE A ACQUARO THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY CHANGES TO THE
AGENDA?
I'M NOT SEEING ANY SO WITH NO
OBJECTION THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED AS PRESENTED.
SO NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES ON AN ISSUE THAT IS NOT
LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING ON
THIS AGENDA.
SO PLEASE APPROACH THE PODIUM
OR IF YOU'RE LISTENING BY PHONE
PRESS STAR NINE IF YOU'RE ON
THE VIDEO THEN RAISE YOUR HAND
AND I'M NOT SEEING ANYONE SO WE
WILL MOVE ON FROM PUBLIC
COMMENT AND WE WILL GO INTO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS BUT THERE
ISN'T ANY SO WE'LL KEEP GOING
TO HEARINGS.
WE'VE GOT TWO HEARINGS THIS
EVENING AND WE'LL START WITH
EF1.
>> THAT'S FOR EIGHT WEST
LIBERTY STREET.
>> SO WE'LL HAVE THE STAFF
REPORT WHENEVER YOU'RE READY
PLEASE.
THANK YOU
.
IF I CAN GET THE SCREEN TO
CHANGE.
THERE WE GO.
ALL RIGHT.
TYPE OF ON THE SCREEN IT IS
EIGHT WEST LIBERTY STREET.
>> THIS IS A CONTRIBUTING QUEEN
AND STRUCTURE IN THE OLD WEST
SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THIS IS THE 1891 ALBERT MANN
HOUSE FEATURES A PROMINENT
FRONT AND TURRET WITH A RAISED
BRICK PATTERN NEAR THE CONICAL
ROOF DOUBLE FRONT DOORS WITH
COLORED GLASS THAT
COVERED FRONT PORCH OR STOOP
WITH FANCY TURN POSTMASTER'S
AND TRIM AND A SIMILAR SECOND
FLOOR COVERED PORCH SITS ATOP
IT.
>> THAT'S A FANCY WAY OF SAYING
THERE'S A REALLY COOL FRONT
PORCH WITH ANOTHER ONE ABOVE
IT.
>> IT'S ON THE NORTH SIDE
OF WEST LIBERTY STREET BETWEEN
SECOND AND THIRD STREETS.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE'S A
THERE'S A LARGE HOUSE TO THE
RIGHT HERE WHICH WOULD BE TO
THE EAST.
TO THE WEST IS THE CHURCH
THAT'S AT THE CORNER THE
APPLICANT IS SEEKING APPROVAL
TO CONSTRUCT A SMALL DORMER ON
THE WEST FACING ROOF TO ALLOW
HEADROOM FOR AN ATTIC
STAIRCASE.
>> LET'S RUN THROUGH THE
PICTURES.
>> THIS IS A REALLY COOL HOUSE
AND I DO APPRECIATE THE
METICULOUS CARE THAT IT'S HAD
OVER THE YEARS.
YOU CAN SEE IT IT'S IN GREAT
SHAPE, HAS INTERESTING WINDOWS
,LITTLE COLORED GLASS HERE.
>> THERE ARE SOME ADDITIONS ON
THE BACK THOUGH THE FRAME YOU
KNOW THE THE WOOD CLATTERED
PART IN THE BACK IS AN ADDITION
AND YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE ARE
DORMERS ON BOTH SIDES ON THE
WAY BACK SECTION OF THE HOUSE.
>> BUT YOU CAN ALSO SEE REALLY
EASILY WHERE THE ORIGINAL BRICK
WITH A STONE FOUNDATION IS.
>> THIS IS LOOKING TOWARD THE
STREET FROM THE BACK AND
THERE'S THE VERY BACK OF THE
HOUSE THE DORMERS PROPOSED ON
THIS SIDE ROOF FACING THE
CHURCH.
HERE'S WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE NOW.
THIS IS THE AREA THAT CHIMNEY
WAS IN THE LAST SLIDE.
>> HERE'S THE DORMER.
IT'S ABOUT SEVEN FEET WIDE AND
HAS LAP SIDING.
>> DOESN'T SAY WOOD BUT IT SAYS
MATCHING THE EXISTING.
>> SO THAT TO ME SAYS WOOD, AS
DO THESE THESE REAR SECTIONS
THE OTHER DORMERS ON THE HOUSE,
A COUPLE OF AWNING WINDOWS AND
HERE'S A PLAN VIEW OF WHERE
THIS WOULD GO AND WHERE THE
STAIRS
ARE THAT GO UP TO REACH
THE ATTIC.
>> THIS PICTURE MAKES A LITTLE
MORE SENSE.
>> IT DOES.
THIS MAKES IT LOOK HUGE BECAUSE
IT'S AN ELEVATION VIEW, A
SECTION VIEW AND KEEP IN MIND
ALSO THAT THIS IS AN ELEVATION
VIEW BUT THAT'S WHERE IT WOULD
BE LOCATED AND REALLY THIS IS
THIS IS THIS IS THE ONE TO KEEP
IN MIND TO GIVE YOU AN IDEA
OF HOW FAR IT IS FROM THE
STREET, THE PLACEMENT IT'S
REALLY PRETTY MINIMAL AND WE'LL
GIVE THEM ACCESS TO A LOT
OF EXTRA ROOM UP THERE ON THE
THIRD FLOOR.
THIS IS A VIEW FROM ACROSS THE
STREET FROM THIS EXACT ANGLE
HEAD ON.
YOU PROBABLY COULDN'T EVEN SEE
THAT DOOR.
BUT IF YOU MOVED TO THE THE
WEST A LITTLE BIT MORE YOU
PROBABLY COULD.
>> ALL RIGHT.
FROM THE SECRETARY TO YOUR
STANDARDS, NO.9 BEST APPLIES.
IT SAYS NEW ADDITIONS EXTERIOR
ALTERATIONS ARE RELATED.
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEWARK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MASSIVE SIZE SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT FROM THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR GUIDELINES FOR
ROOFS IT'S RECOMMENDED TO
DESIGN ADDITIONS TO ROOFS SUCH
AS DORMERS WHEN REQUIRED BY THE
NEW USE THAT THEIR
INCONSPICUOUS FROM THE PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY AND DO NOT DAMAGE
OR OBSCURE CHARACTER DEFINING
STRUCTURES.
>> STAFF BELIEVES THAT THIS IS
BOTH INCONSPICUOUS AND DOES NOT
DAMAGE CHARACTER DEFINING
STRUCTURES THERE ARE SOME
THINGS THAT AREN'T RECOMMENDED
LIKE CHANGING THE CONFIGURATION
OF ROOFS THAT THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER IS DIMINISHED OR
INSTALLING NEW WINDOWS THAT
OBSCURE DAMAGE OR DESTROY
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES.
BUT I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT THAT
IS AN ISSUE WITH THIS
APPLICATION AND FINALLY IN THE
DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD
SETTING, IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED
TO INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION
THAT'S VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE OR
THAT DESTROYS HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS.
>> LET ME JUST CHECK MY STAFF
NOTES I'M SORRY THE PROPOSED
DORMERS SEVEN FEET TEN INCHES
WIDE THAT PAIR OF WINDOWS
ANDERSON.
>> ONE HUNDRED SERIES ON
WINDOWS.
THIS HOUSE HAS A LOT
OF DIFFERENT ROOF FORMS.
I MEAN IT'S CLEAN AND THAT'S
WHAT THEY'RE LIKE THAT'S WHAT
THEY'RE KNOWN FOR HAS CONICAL
GABLED SHED AND HIP ROOFS AND
STAFF BELIEVES THE WORK IS
APPROPRIATE, MEETS THE
STANDARDS GUIDELINES USED BY
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MISS
THATCHER.
OK, WE WILL NOW MOVE ON TO THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT.
>> WE HAD COMMISSIONERS NISBET
AND KAPLAN ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
>> SO WILL YOU PLEASE GIVE US
YOUR REPORT?
>> WHO'D LIKE TO GO FIRST?
>> UM, YEAH.
SO WALKING AROUND THE HOUSE
IT'S IT'S IT'S CLEAR TO SEE
EVEN FROM THE OUTSIDE WHY THE
THE SHED DOORMAN NEEDS TO BE
INSTALLED HERE.
>> YOU CAN SEE I'M NOT SURE HOW
LONG IT COULD HAVE BEEN QUITE A
LONG TIME AGO BUT PART OF THAT
WINDOW HAD BEEN FILLED IN AT
SOME POINT WITH BRICK YOU CAN
SEE IT RIGHT ABOVE THIS SHORT
WINDOW THAT WAS TO MAKE ROOM
I'M GUESSING WE DIDN'T GO
INSIDE BUT I'M GUESSING THAT
WAS TO MAKE ROOM FOR A
STAIRWELL THAT WAS ADDED AT
SOME POINT.
SO NOW THAT STAIRWELL IN ORDER
TO HAVE HAD ROOM ABOVE YOU CAN
SEE HOW IT'S GOING TO DRIVE
RIGHT INTO THAT ROOFLINE.
BUT OTHER THAN THAT WE WALKED
IT FROM EVERY ANGLE AND WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF RIGHT HERE AND
MAYBE A LITTLE BIT OFF THE
CORNER TO THE WEST YOU DON'T
SEE THE IMPACT OF THAT DORMER
FROM ALMOST THE OTHER ANGLE.
YEAH, NOT MUCH.
NOT MUCH TO ADD.
THAT'S A GREAT SUMMARY OF WHAT
WE SAW AND I THINK JUST ALSO
COMMENTING THAT THE HOUSE HAS
BEEN SO CLEARLY LIKE LOVINGLY
CARED FOR IT WAS NICE TO SEE
AND WE DID NOTICE THAT THE
BUILDING BEHIND HAS SORT OF A
SIMILAR WINDOW DORMER SO WE
THOUGHT EVEN JUST LOOKING AT
HOW IT SITS IN THE CONTEXT
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD AT LARGE,
IT WOULDN'T FEEL SORT
OF STRANGE TO SEE THAT KIND
CONFIGURATION.
>> I THINK IT FELT THOUGHTFULLY
PLANNED TO MATCH THE CHARACTER
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD IN THE
HOUSE ITSELF.
WELL, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OH WELL NOW MOVE ON TO THE
APPLICANT PRESENTATION SO THE
APPLICANT PLEASE COME FORWARD,
APPROACH THE PODIUM.
>> THANK YOU.
SO PLEASE PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND YOU
HAVE UP TO FIVE MINUTES AND
JUST RESPOND TO WHAT YOU'VE
HEARD SO FAR.
>> ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS PLEASE.
THANK YOU.
KEVIN EDKINS.
I'M THE ARCHITECT OF THE
PROJECT.
DID YOU SAY YOU NEED MY ADDRESS
ADDRESS?
YEAH PLEASE.
THAT'S THE PROTOCOL FIVE THREE
NINE LAWRENCE AVENUE AND
YPSILANTI.
I DON'T HAVE MUCH TO ADD.
I THINK YOU YOUR BETWEEN THE
THREE VIEWS ABOUT COVERED IT
WELL WE WE DID WHAT WE COULD TO
KEEP IT MINIMAL THAT THEY HAD
TO DORMERS NO WIDER THAN THE
STAIR ITSELF THAT'S DIRECTLY
ABOVE THE STAIR FROM THE
LANDING UP TO THE CURRENT ROOF
AT THE EDGE OF THE HOUSE ABOUT
THREE FOOT ELEVEN RIGHT NOW.
SO YOU'RE KIND OF DOING THAT
AROUND THE LANDING.
SO IT'S A IT'S A REALLY COOL
ATTIC ESPECIALLY WHEN YOU GO
INSIDE THE THE TURRET AT THE
CORNER AND IT'S GOT GREAT GREAT
SPACE UP THERE.
SO THEY THEY USE FOR STORAGE
BUT IT'S BEEN DIFFICULT TO MOVE
THINGS UP AND DOWN SO THIS WILL
JUST MAKE IT MUCH MORE
FUNCTIONAL AND USABLE MATERIALS
WILL MATCH WITH MATCH WHAT'S
THERE THE PAINTED WOOD LAP
SIDING THE ROOF PICTURE IS THE
SAME ON THE ORIGINAL SHALLOWER
GABLE ON THE REAR OF THE HOUSE
THAT'S A BRICK IN THE STONE
PORTION THAT HAS A SHALLOWER
ROOF THE FIVE TWELVE THIS WILL
MATCH THAT.
SO YEAH WE DID WHAT WE COULD TO
JUST KEEP IT SIMPLE AND MATCH
WHAT'S THERE AS BEST WE COULD
WHILE PROVIDING USABLE SPACE.
VERY GOOD.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT FROM THE COMMISSION?
>> GREAT QUESTION.
>> THANKS JIM.
THE REAL QUICK ON THE ANDERSON
ONE HUNDREDTH WHAT'S THE
MATERIALITY OF THOSE NUMBERS?
>> THERE ARE FIVE BREAKS WINDOW
SO FROM THE OUTSIDE THEY LOOK
LIKE CLOUD WINDOW LIKE MOST
CLOUD WINDOWS TODAY BUT SOME
OF THEM LIKE A FOUR HUNDRED
SERIES ARE A VINYL CLOUD.
THESE ARE ACTUALLY MORE DURABLE
AND IN HOLD UP BETTER THAN
VINYL CLOUD DOES.
BUT IT'S THE SAME MATERIAL ON
THE INSIDE.
>> SO KIND OF A MAINTENANCE
FREE INSIDE AND OUTSIDE AND THE
SIDING WILL BE DECIDING WILL BE
WOOD LAP SIDING PAINTED WHITE
TO MATCH THE OTHER ADDITIONS
AND AND SHED DORMER IN THE YOU
GREAT ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR
THE APPLICANT.
OK THANK YOU KEVIN .
>> THANK YOU SHADE IT LOOKS OK
SO NOW WE WILL OPEN UP THIS
HEARING WE OPEN UP THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM FOR 08
WEST LIBERTY STREET SO THIS IS
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES
ABOUT THIS APPLICATION.
>> I'M NOT SEEING ANYONE
APPROACH THE PODIUM HERE AND
WE'RE NOT WE DON'T HAVE ANYONE
ONLINE.
SO THAT'S THAT'S IT FOR THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
WE WILL MOVE ON NOW TO THE
MOTIONS.
>> SO I'M WONDERING IF THERE'S
A COMMISSIONER WHO WOULD LIKE
TO MAKE A MOTION AT THIS TIME
ANYONE CAN DO IT.
YES, UH, I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT FARAWAY WEST
LIBERTY STREET, A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT
A SMALL DORMER ON THE WEST
FACING ROOF TO ALLOW HEADROOM
FOR AN ATTIC STAIRCASE AS
PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND IT MEETS THE NEARBY
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES IN PARTICULAR THE
GUIDELINES FOR ROOFS AND THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS REHABILITATION AND
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS NINE AND
TEN IN THE GUIDELINES FOR
ROOFS, WINDOWS AND DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING AGAIN VERY
GOOD.
>> THAT WAS MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER KAPLIN AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER ROSS.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION DENHA WANT TO MAKE A
COMMENT?
OK, I ASSUME THERE'S NO
COMMENTS BECAUSE LIKE THE STAFF
REPORT AND THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
REPORT SAID IT'S VERY SIMPLE
AND IT'S A SIMPLE PROJECT IS
WELL THOUGHT OUT AS YOU CAN SEE
THROUGH THE APPLICATION AND IT
FOLLOWS THE STANDARDS AS WE'RE
ALL UNDERSTANDING.
SO LET'S JUST GO RIGHT TO A
VOTE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES, YES,
YES, YES, YES.
>> ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
>> THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
>> PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST RECEIVE
ALL REQUIRED PERMITS FROM THE
CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT AND THAT THE WORK IN
THE PERMITS MUST MATCH WHAT WAS
APPROVED BY THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION.
THANK YOU.
OK WE WILL NOW MOVE ON TO ITEM
F TWO THAT IS AT FIVE SIX TO
SOUTH ASHLEY STREET AND WILL
ASK FOR THIS STAFF REPORT AS
SOON AS YOU'RE READY AND
AVAILABLE.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THIS IS FIVE SIXTY TWO SOUTH
ASHLEY STREET.
>> IT IS A ONE AND THREE
QUARTER STORY GABLE FRONT HOUSE
WHICH FEATURES A STONE
FOUNDATION ASPHALT ROOF AND
WOOD SIDING AND A FOUR WITH
FRONT PORCH WHICH IS RECESSED
UNDERNEATH THE UPPER STOREY AT
FIRST APPEARS ON THE 1916
SANDBORN FIRE INSURANCE MAP
WHEN IT WAS OCCUPIED BY
CLARENCE H.
MALKY AND IT ALSO APPEARS AS
EARLY NINETEEN HUNDRED IN THE
CITY DIRECTORY AS THE RESIDENTS
OF NELSPRUIT.
THE SITE IS LOCATED ON THE WEST
SIDE OF SOUTH ASHELY STREET
BETWEEN WEST MADISON STREET AND
WEST JEFFERSON STREET AND THE
APPLICANT IS SEEKING APPROVAL
TO CONVERT AN EXISTING THIRTY
THREE INCH BY 16 INCH BASEMENT
WINDOW TO A 28 INCH BY FORTY
SIX EGRESS WINDOW AND WINDOW
WELL ON THE NORTH ELEVATION
NEAR THE RIGHT OF WAY.
SO THIS IS COMING BEFORE THE
COMMISSION BECAUSE IT IS CLOSE
TO THE SIDEWALK AND BUT A
GAGGLE OF COMMISSIONERS RIGHT
HERE THAT ARE IN FRONT OF THE
WINDOW THIS IS THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE AND THEN IT'S ON THIS
NORTH SIDE RIGHT HERE THIS
IS
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE HOUSE,
THE SOUTH SIDE AND THEN THIS IS
THE WINDOW IN QUESTION FIXED
WOOD WINDOW BETTER VIEW THEY'LL
BE CONVERTED TO EGRESS AND THEN
THAT'S FARTHER DOWN THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE.
THIS IS A STAFF PHOTO FROM A
YEAR THAT IS WRITTEN IN THE
REPORT I THINK TWENTY AND THEN
THESE ARE SOME APPLICANT
PHOTOS.
>> SO THIS IS LOOKING TOWARDS
THE STREET AND THE WINDOW IN
QUESTION IS RIGHT HERE.
>> SO JUST BEHIND THIS KIND
OF BUMP OUT THIS IS FROM THE
INTERIOR OF THE BASEMENT.
>> SO THERE'S MATCHING WINDOWS.
THIS ONE IS THE ONE THAT'S
PROPOSED TO BE CONVERTED.
SOME MORE PHOTOS THIS IS
LOOKING TOWARDS THE BACK OF THE
HOUSE WE'RE PROBABLY THE CAMERA
IS PROBABLY STANDING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE WINDOW AND THERE
ARE FOUR BASEMENT WINDOWS AND
THE APPLICATION WHEN I LOOK AT
MY NOTES I'LL TELL YOU WHY ALL
THE OTHER LOCATIONS DON'T WORK
AND THIS ONE IS THE ONLY
POSSIBLE EVEN THOUGH IT'S NEAR
THE FRONT AND THEN FROM THE
INTERIOR THIS IS THE OTHER SIDE
OF THE HOUSE RIGHT FROM THE
SECRETARY THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS ONE A PROPERTY WILL
BE USED AS IT WAS HISTORICALLY
OR BE GIVEN A NEW USE THAT
REQUIRES MINIMAL CHANGE TO ITS
DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS, FEATURES
SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS TO THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE PROPERTY WILL
BE RETAINED AND PRESERVED THE
REMOVAL OF HISTORIC MATERIALS
OR ALTERATION OF FEATURES AND
SPACES THAT CHARACTERIZE THE
PROPERTY WILL BE AVOIDED AND
LUCKIEST.
>> JOE ALREADY READ THAT ONE
FOR WINDOWS FROM THE GUIDELINES
FROM THE SECRETARY OF THE
INTERIOR IT'S RECOMMENDED TO
DESIGN AND INSTALL ADDITIONAL
WINDOWS ON THE REAR OR OTHER
NON CHARACTER DEFINING
ELEVATIONS IF REQUIRED BY THE
NEW USE.
>> IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE A NEW DESIGN THAT IS
INCOMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING FOR
NEIGHBORHOOD DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION THAT
IS VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE OR
DESTROYS HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS
WITH THE SETTING FOR HEALTH AND
SAFETY.
THESE ARE EGRESS WINDOWS SO IT
IS RECOMMENDED TO IDENTIFY
CHARACTER DEFINING SPACES AND
FEATURES AND FINISHES SO THAT
CODE REQUIRED WORK WILL NOT
RESULT IN THEIR DAMAGE OR LOSS
.
IT'S ALSO RECOMMENDED TO COMPLY
WITH HEALTH AND SAFETY CODES
RECOMMENDED TO ALTER DAMAGE OR
DESTROY CHARACTER DEFINING
SPACES WHEN MAKING
MODIFICATIONS FOR SAFETY CODES
FROM THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES IT
IS NOT APPROPRIATE TO CHANGE
THE NUMBER AT LOCATION AND SIZE
OR GLAZING PATTERN OF WINDOWS
AND FROM SAFETY CODE IT'S
APPROPRIATE TO COMPLY WITH
BARRIER FREE AND SAFETY CODES
IN A MANNER THAT ENSURES THE
PRESERVATION OF CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES GO BACK TO
PHOTOS AND SAY JUST A COUPLE
MORE THINGS
ABOUT
SO THE NEW
BASEMENT EGRESS WINDOW IS
REQUIRED AND THE ONLY POSSIBLE
LOCATION AS DETAILED IN THE
APPLICATION IS THIS ONE HERE
NEAR THE STREET THERE'S A
SHARED EASEMENT WITH THE
ADJACENT PROPERTY ON THE SOUTH
ELEVATION WHICH IS THE OTHER
SIDE ELEVATION AND THERE'S
EXISTING PLUMBING AT THE REAR
THE HOME WHICH MAKES IT HARD TO
PUT NEW EGRESS AT THE REAR
OF THE HOME WHICH WOULD BE
PREFERRED.
>> SO THEY DID LOOK AT THE
OTHER OPTIONS AND THIS WAS THE
ONLY ONE THAT WORKED FOR THEM.
THERE'S ALSO THIS ON THE NORTH
ELEVATION THERE'S ANOTHER
EXISTING WINDOW THAT'S CLOSER
TO THE REAR OF THE HOME BUT IT
IS AS YOU CAN SEE IN THESE
PHOTOS, IT'S UNDERNEATH
CANTILEVERED BAY WINDOW AND SO
IT DISQUALIFIES THAT AS A MEANS
FOR EGRESS.
>> SO THAT'S WHY WE'RE LOOKING
AT THIS LOCATION.
THE NEW PROPOSED WINDOW WILL BE
A VINYL CASEMENT EGRESS WINDOW
THAT IS TWENTY EIGHT INCHES BY
FORTY SIX INCHES.
SO IT WILL FIT WITHIN THE
EXISTING OPENING.
IT'LL BE A LITTLE BIT SMALLER
THAN THE EXISTING WINDOW AND WE
LOOKED AT THE EXISTING WOOD
WINDOWS.
>> THE WINDOW WELL WILL BE
STRUCTURAL PLASTIC WILL BE
FIFTY FOUR FEET WIDE AND
BETWEEN FIFTY ONE OR FIFTY FOUR
FEET FIFTY FOUR INCHES IT'LL BE
BETWEEN FIFTY ONE INCHES AND
SIXTY SEVEN INCHES IN HEIGHT.
>> THE EXACT HEIGHT WASN'T
CONFIRMED BUT IT WILL BE ONE
OF THOSE OPTIONS AND THE
APPLICATION INCLUDES A
POLYCARBONATE DOMED WALL.
HOWEVER I HAD SOME QUESTIONS
ABOUT THIS BUT WE DID TALK
ABOUT IT ON THE REVIEW AT THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE AND I'M SURE
THE APPLICANT WILL DISCUSS
THAT.
IT'LL BE A LOW PROFILE AND WE
DON'T HAVE TO BE VERY CONCERNED
ABOUT THE WALL COVER .
>> SO OVERALL BASEMENT
CONGRESSMAN IS NECESSARY TO
MEET BUILDING CODE AND IT'LL BE
CLOSE TO THE RIGHT OF WAY.
>> THIS IS THE ONLY POSSIBLE
LOCATION AND THE WINDOW
MATERIALS AND DIMENSIONS ARE
TYPICAL FOR EGRESS WINDOWS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH MARIJANA WE
WILL NOW MOVE ON TO THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT SO WE'D LIKE
TO HEAR FROM THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
>> MR. KAPLAN FIRST PLACE.
YES.
SO IN REVIEW AND LOOKING AROUND
THE HOUSE IT WAS CLEAR FROM
FROM OUR GUIDED TOUR THAT THIS
WAS THE THE ONLY REAL POSSIBLE
WINDOW TO USE IN ADDITION TO
CHOOSING THIS LOCATION, IT WAS
CALLED OUT TO US THAT THE
EGRESS WINDOW WILL IF YOU'RE
LOOKING AT THIS PICTURE RIGHT
HERE, THE EGRESS WINDOW IS
GOING TO HAVE TO START ABOUT
EIGHT TO TEN INCHES BELOW THE
CURRENT FRAMING.
AND THE REASON FOR THAT IS WHEN
YOU'RE LOOKING THROUGH THAT
WINDOW THE EXISTING DUCTWORK
OF THE HOUSE IS IS COUPLEDOM
CEILING LEVEL.
SO IN ORDER TO HAVE THAT
CLEARANCE TO GET THROUGH
THEY'RE GOING TO START AT ABOUT
EIGHTEEN INCHES LOWER TO MAKE
ROOM THAT DUCT.
ONE OF THE PICTURES ON THIS
SHOWED YOU IF YOU WERE LOOKING
STRAIGHT INTO THAT WINDOW YOU
CAN SEE THE DUCT WORK IS JUST
AT THE TOP OF THE WINDOW.
YOU'RE SEEING PART OF IT RIGHT
THERE.
SO THEY'RE TRYING TO GET
CLEARANCE FOR THAT AND I
BELIEVE IT WAS SUGGESTED THEY
WERE GOING TO PUT LIKE GLASS
BLOCK IN A ROW BEFORE THEY
STARTED THE WINDOW.
THAT WAS THE ONLY THING THAT I
REMARKED AT OTHER THAN WHAT WAS
COVERED IN THE REPORT.
NOT MUCH TO ADD TO THAT.
IT WAS SEEM PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
YEAH, I THINK THEY TALKED ABOUT
THE GLASS BOX AND I THINK WE'LL
SEE WHAT THEY HAVE FOR THE DOME
COVER .
BUT LOW PROFILE SOUNDED LIKE
THE ANSWER AND YEAH I THINK WE
ALSO NOTED THAT THERE WAS A LOT
OF VEGETATION IN FRONT
OBVIOUSLY THAT CAN CHANGE BUT
THAT LOCATION IS PRETTY WELL
COVERED FROM THE STREET SO
THAT'S NOT NOT FOREVER
CONFIRMED DEPENDING ON HOW
THOSE PLANTS GROW.
>> BUT THAT WAS NICE FOR THAT.
>> VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU BOTH.
SO NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE
APPLICANT PRESENTATION.
I ASSUME WE HAVE THE APPLICANT
JOINING OF RESUME IS THAT
CORRECT GRADES CORRECT.
OH HEY THERE.
OH SO WOULD YOU PLEASE DO YOUR
VIDEO?
YEAH, THERE YOU ARE.
GREAT.
SO PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND
NOW'S THE TIME FOR YOU TO
ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS OR GIVE
PRESENTATION.
>> SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ALL RIGHT.
MY NAME IS CURTIS ALJA.
MY ADDRESS IS THREE TO FIVE
CHERYL DRIVE MILIND.
THANK YOU SO RIGHT.
SO YES.
SO THE WINDOW HERE ON THE
EXTERIOR MEASURES WIDER THAN IT
DOES ON THE INTERIOR.
SO THE WINDOW IS ACTUALLY
THIRTY SEVEN INCH ROUGH OPENING
FOR THE INTERIOR SO WE'RE GOING
TO TRY TO SHAVE THAT DOWN
SLIGHTLY BY ABOUT THREE AND A
HALF TO FOUR INCHES SO THAT WAY
THAT OUR OUR MATERIAL FOR
FRAMING IN THAT AREA WILL FIT
PLUS THE WINDOW THE WINDOW
THERE CORRECT WILL START
ROUGHLY ANYWHERE BETWEEN SIX
AND TEN INCHES ONCE WE GET ON
SITE AND WE GET EVERYTHING FEEL
BACK AND WE CAN SEE EXACTLY HOW
LOW WE NEED TO GO, WE WILL THIS
THE OPENING ABOVE GRADE WILL
LOOK EXACTLY THE SAME AS IT
DOES NOW EXCEPT FOR WE'LL CUT
IT STRAIGHT DOWN AS FAR AS WE
NEED TO TO INSTALL THE WINDOW
FOR MEETING THE
VERY GOOD.
>> I'M SORRY I MISSED YOUR NAME
AGAIN.
CAN YOU PLEASE REPEAT THAT FOR
ME?
>> I GOT HURT BALLIN CURTIS
YEAH.
THANK YOU CURTIS.
SO DOES ANY IS I JUST WANT TO
MAKE SURE IS THAT IS THAT ARE
YOU DONE WITH YOUR YOUR PART
OF THE PRESENTATION?
I'M MORE THAN HAPPY TO ANSWER
QUESTIONS YES.
PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD OK I
AGREE OK ARE THERE ANY
COMMISSIONERS WHO HAVE
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT.
>> YES I JUST HAVE ONE YOU KNOW
IN ONE OF THE DIAGRAMS FOR THE
BILL EGRESS SYSTEM IT SHOWS
LIKE IN A CROSS SECTION LIKE A
PEA GRAVEL DRAIN TRENCH OR A
TYING INTO A PERIMETER DRAIN.
I DON'T KNOW IF IN YOUR
EXPLORATION THE HOUSE DID YOU
FIND AN EXISTING PERIMETER
DRAIN HERE IS IT IS THERE ARE
THERE PROVISIONS FOR SOME SORT
OF CAPTURED DRAINAGE FOR WATER
THAT MIGHT FALL INTO THIS WELL
OR WRECK?
OK, SO AND WITH THAT IT'S STILL
BELIEVED THAT THAT A DOME
COVER OVER ABOVE THAT WOULD BE
NECESSARY TO PROTECT WATER FROM
GETTING IN IN THE FIRST PLACE
THAT IT'S NOT NECESSARILY
PROTECT FROM WATER.
WHAT I THINK IRISH COMPANIES
HAVE FOUND OVER THE YEARS IS
THAT THE METAL GRATES ALLOW A
LOT OF DEBRIS TO FALL IN THERE
WHICH A LOT MAKES YOU HAVE TO
GO DOWN IN THERE AND DIG IT
OUT.
IT DOES STOP SOME RAIN.
IT DOESN'T STOP ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT BUT IT DOES STOP NINETY
NINE PERCENT OF ALL THE DEBRIS
LEAVES LIKE YOU SEE IN FRONT
OF THE WINDOW THERE.
NOW THAT LEAVES FALLING FROM
ABOVE WOULD FALL ONTO IT.
IT'S MUCH EASIER FOR SMALL
CHILDREN TO PUSH THE COVER OFF
VERSUS THE THE THE OLD SCHOOL
REBAR WELDED STEEL FRAMES THAT
ARE EXTREMELY SO THERE ARE
SAFETY ASPECTS OF THE
COVER THAT'S ON THIS WELL HAS
PLASTIC CLIPS THAT HOLD IT ON.
SO ANYONE FROM ANYONE CAN CLIMB
OUT OF THAT WELL COULD JUST
REACH UP AND PUSH IT OFF WHICH
THE COVER OFF FAIRLY EASILY
WEIGHS MAYBE TEN POUNDS AT THE
MOST
TO COVER ITSELF IN THE
THICKEST PORTION IS IN THE BACK
IN THE CENTER AND IT SLOPES
AWAY INTO THE SIDES IN A RADIUS
THAT'S ABOUT FOUR AND A HALF
INCHES TALL.
GOT IT.
>> NOT VERY VISIBLE.
YES, COMMISSIONER ROSS, IT'S
JUST YOU DON'T HAVE A I MEAN WE
JUST KIND OF HAVE THIS TYPICAL
DRAWING HERE.
>> SO WHAT WE'RE GOING TO SEE
ABOVE GRADE WOULD BE THE
COVER AND THEN GLASS BLOCK IN
SOME PORTION OF A VINYL WINDOW.
>> IS THAT IS THAT THAT'S
CORRECT.
I THINK THERE'S THERE'S ONE
OTHER ELEMENT WHICH IS THE
INFILL MATERIAL AROUND BECAUSE
THE WINDOW ITSELF SOUNDS LIKE
IT'S A FEW INCHES SMALLER WIDTH
WISE WITH THIS ONE.
YEAH.
SO SO YEAH.
>> WHAT ARE YOU IN FILLING THE
SIDES THERE WITH CURTIS WE USE
TREATED LUMBER FOR THAT OK AS
BE PAINTED IT CAN'T BE PAINTED
A LOT OF HOMEOWNERS END WAITING
FOR IT TO DRY OUT THE TRIM
RIGHT OK GET TREATED LUMBER
COMES WITH A LOT OF MOISTURE
WRAPPED IN IT ALREADY SO IT
TAKES A COUPLE OF SEASONS RIGHT
OK SO WE TREATED LUMBER ON THE
SIDES GLASS BOX ON THE TOP YOU
OK?
>> WE HAVE ANOTHER QUESTION.
DID YOU CONSIDER ANYTHING OTHER
THAN THE GLASS BLOCK ON THE TOP
?
WE HAVE DONE OTHER THINGS IN
THE PAST.
IT'S JUST YOU KNOW, IF WE NEED
TO MEET SOME SORT OF I APPEAL
HERE WE MIGHT BE ABLE TO DO
SOME OF THIS FLAGSTONE INFILL.
YOU'RE AT THE TOP TO KIND
OF NOT HAVE THE GLASS BLOCK.
WOULD IT BE MORE OF A SOLID
VERSUS A GLASS PALAZZO?
>> ALL RIGHT.
LET'S HOLD THAT THOUGHT TILL
DISCUSSION.
BUT THANK YOU FOR THAT CURTIS'.
ARE THERE MORE QUESTIONS FOR
CURTIS?
OK, LET ME JUST CHECK TO SEE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE BECAUSE
WE WILL TALK ABOUT THIS IN THE
DISCUSSION BUT I ASSUME THE THE
WINDOW IS LIKE AN OUTWARD
OPENING TYPICAL EGRESS WINDOW,
IS THAT CORRECT?
>> NO, IT OPENS INSIDE.
OK, SO IT IS A ONE HAND
OPERATION.
YOU LIFT THE HANDLE THE ENTIRE
WINDOWS COMES IN OK?
YEAH IT COMES IN AND THEN WHEN
THE WINDOW IS CLOSED FROM THE
EGRESS POSITION IT IS A SINGLE
WINDOW.
>> GOT IT.
OK THANKS FOR ALL THAT ANY
OTHER QUESTIONS BEFORE WE MOVE
ON WE CAN ALWAYS ASK MORE BUT
THIS IS THE MOMENT AND WE WILL
MOVE ON.
>> THANK YOU CURTIS.
WE MIGHT COME BACK TO YOU IN A
IN A MOMENT HERE BUT WE'VE GOT
SOME OTHER BUSINESS TO ATTEND
TO AND THAT IS THE PUBLIC
HEARING SO RIGHT.
>> I WILL NOW OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
>> THIS IS FIVE SIX TO SOUTH
ASHLEY STREET.
>> THERE'S AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION SO WE DO NOT HAVE
ANYONE FOR PUBLIC HEARING SO WE
CAN MOVE ON FROM THAT AND WE'LL
GO TO EMOTION.
>> SO IS THERE ANY COMMISSIONER
WHO WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
ON THIS ITEM?
>> I CAN DO IT.
THANK YOU.
>> I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT FIVE SIX TO
SOUTH ASHLEY STREET, A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO INSTALL A NEW BASEMENT
EGRESS WINDOW AND WELL ON THE
NORTH ELEVATION AS PROPOSED THE
WORK IS COMPATIBLE.
>> AN EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES
ESPECIALLY THOSE FOR WINDOWS
AND SAFETY CODES IN THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS REHABILITATION AND
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS ONE, TWO
AND NINE IN THE GUIDELINES FOR
WINDOWS NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING
AND HEALTH AND SAFETY GRADE.
DO WE HAVE ANY ONE SECOND THAT
FANTASTIC THAT IS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER ROSS AND SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER CAPLAN?
THANK YOU.
SO NOW LET'S GO TO SOME
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION.
>> I THINK THAT I GUESS THERE'S
KIND OF TWO ELEMENTS HERE.
ONE, DO WE THINK THIS LOCATION
IS APPROPRIATE FOR THE EGRESS
WINDOW AND TWO, THERE JUST HAD
BEEN A LOT OF KIND
OF DISCUSSIONS ON MATERIALS AND
THIS IS MAYBE A LITTLE A LITTLE
DIFFERENT THAN THAN MOST
TYPICAL EGRESS WALLS THAT WE
GET WHERE IT'S JUST REALLY YES
,IT'S GETTING DEEPER.
THERE'S A WELL GOING IN BUT
IT'S KIND OF JUST LIKE A WINDOW
FOR A WINDOW.
THIS IS A WINDOW BUT THERE'S
GOING TO BE MAYBE GLASS BLOCK
ALSO IS WHAT THE PROPOSAL IS ON
TOP AND WE HEARD WHY IT'S AN
INWARD YOU KNOW, INWARD OPENING
WINDOW THAT NEEDS TO CLEAR
SOMETHING.
>> SO THAT'S THE REASON.
AND THEN THERE'S ALSO GOING TO
BE EXPOSED, YOU KNOW, UNPAINTED
BUT MAYBE PAINTED PRESSURE
TREATED LUMBER ON THE JAME'S
AND SO I'LL JUST RECOMMEND THAT
UM SINCE THAT WASN'T CLEAR IN
THE APPLICATION ABOUT THE GLASS
BLOCK AND FELT THAT YOU ADD
SOMETHING TO THE MOTION
WHENEVER YOU'RE READY TO DO
THAT LIKE FOR EXAMPLE LIKE IF
SINCE THE GLASS ISN'T IN THE IS
IN THE APPLICATION MATERIALS IF
YOU DECIDE THAT THAT'S
APPROPRIATE THEN ADD SOMETHING
ABOUT THE GLASS BACK IN THE
MOTION.
>> SOUNDS GOOD.
>> UM SO FIRST OF ALL DOES
ANYONE WANT TO SPEAK TO THE
OPINION THAT THIS THIS EGRESS
AND EGRESS WELL WHATSOEVER
SHOULD NOT BE ALLOWED IN THIS
PARTICULAR LOCATION ON THIS
PROPERTY OR DO WE FEEL LIKE
THIS THIS IS NOT THE FIRST
CHOICE AND MAYBE IT'S THE LAST
CHOICE BUT IT IS STILL
ALLOWABLE?
I GUESS JUST TO SPEAK TO THAT
THERE WAS A PICTURE THAT STAFF
THAT MARIJANA MAYBE YOU TOOK IT
AND IT'S OF IT'S LIKE KIND
OF FROM THE SIDEWALK AND I WAS
JUST CURIOUS WERE YOU ON THE
SIDEWALK WHEN YOU TOOK THAT OR
LIKE THAT ONE FOR EXAMPLE IS
THAT BASICALLY FROM THE
SIDEWALK?
>> ARE YOU EVEN THAT'S THAT'S
FROM THE SIDE THAT'S ONE WOULD
BE FROM THE SIDEWALK AND THEN
THE OTHER ONE WAS CLOSER TO
THAT EVEN CLOSE.
>> YEAH.
YEAH.
OK, SO I DON'T HEAR ANYONE
WANTING TO TAKE THAT POSITION
SO LET'S JUST ASSUME THAT WE
ALL ARE IN AGREEMENT THERE AND
DOES ANYONE WANT TO UH SO I
DIDN'T KNOW ABOUT THE GLASS
BLOCK EITHER SO THEN AND PEOPLE
YOU KNOW IT'S IT'S JUST
SOMETHING I THINK WHAT WHAT I'M
RESPONDING TO IS NOT THE GLASS
BLOCK BUT I THINK NOT ENTIRELY
THE GLASS BLOCK BUT IT'S YOU
KNOW WHEN WHEN WE'RE REMOVING A
HISTORIC WINDOW AND PUTTING
SOMETHING ELSE IN, I THINK WHAT
WE'RE LOOKING FOR IS SOMETHING
THAT IS AS INVISIBLE AS
POSSIBLE.
>> BASICALLY THIS IS NOT AN
ADDITION THAT WE'RE TRYING TO
DRAW ATTENTION TO.
AND I THINK WHAT I'M WHAT I'M
RESPONDING TO IS WHAT I WANT TO
SEE IS MAYBE THE FEWEST
MATERIALS POSSIBLE IN THIS
LOCATION SO THAT YOUR EYE IS
NOT DRAWN TO IT AND I THINK
THAT, YOU KNOW, FILLING IN AN
IN FILLING SOMETHING WITH GLASS
BLOCK I THINK IS IS MORE OR
LESS ALLOWABLE BY THE
STANDARDS.
BUT I THINK IT'S JUST THE
COMBINATION OF GLASS BLOCK PLUS
WINDOW PLUS UNTREATED LUMBER
THAT I'M TRYING TO HAVE A HARD
TIME.
>> I'M THINKING ABOUT THE
STANDARDS AND THINKING OK, IS
THIS ACTUALLY COMPLYING WITH
THE STANDARDS OR NOT?
>> SO WHAT ELSE?
I THINK ONE THING I CAN ADJUST
FROM THERE WAS A LOT OF THERE
WERE SEVERAL PEOPLE ON ON SITE
AND A LOT OF CONVERSATION WITH
THAT POINT WAS BROUGHT UP.
I PERSONALLY LIKE CURTIS
CORRECT ME IF I'M WRONG.
>> I DID NOT GET THE SENSE THAT
ANYONE INVOLVED IS MARRIED
GLASS BLOCK AS THE THING.
YEAH, IT'S MORE OR LESS
SOMETHING THAT WOULD WORK
BECAUSE IT'S STRUCTURAL AND
IT'S A SPACER BUT BUT THE MAIN
CONCERN WAS WHAT TO DO TO BRING
THE OPENING DOWN THAT EIGHT
INCHES SO THE WINDOW THE
ENSUING WINDOW COULD CLEAR THAT
THAT DUCT WORK AND YOU KNOW, I
THINK IT WAS BROUGHT UP
FIELDSTONE AS A POSSIBILITY TO
CONTINUE THE CADENCE
OF EXISTING STONE.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU COULD MATCH
IT THAT EASILY HONESTLY.
>> A TRANSAM WINDOW A TRANSAM
WINDOW ABOVE THE OPENING WINDOW
THAT HAD THE SAME TRIPARTITE
WHAT WOULD WORK YOU KNOW, AND
BE NO DIFFERENT FROM THE
CURRENT VISUAL PRESENTATION.
RIGHT?
I AGREE AND BUT JUST THE
QUESTION IS THE YES.
SO WE'RE SO WHAT IS THE
PROPOSAL THEN IS THE PROPOSAL
GLASS WAS YOUR UNDERSTANDING
THAT THE PROPOSAL IN FRONT
OF US IS GLASS BLOCK OR WAS
THAT KIND OF TALKED ABOUT AT
THE IT'S MORE OF THE LATTER IT
WAS TALKED ABOUT BUT ALSO NOT
SORT OF LIKE AND WE WEREN'T
GLASS BLOCK BUT WE HAVE TO
BRING THE OPENING DOWN BY A
CERTAIN AMOUNT AND WE COULD PUT
GLASS BLOCK HERE OR YOU KNOW
WHAT WHAT WORKS?
>> OK, SO LET ME LET ME JUST
ASK A QUESTION OF STAFF IS IS
UNDER IS PRESSURE TREATED
LUMBER A ALLOWABLE OR NOT
ALLOWABLE IS DOES THAT MEET AS
A FINISH MATERIAL?
IS THAT TYPICALLY MEETING THE
STANDARDS?
>> TYPICALLY NOT YEAH.
I MEAN WE ALLOW IT ON BACK
DECKS AND THINGS LIKE THAT BUT
I'VE NEVER SEEN IT USED AS SORT
OF TRIM MATERIAL AND HE SAID
THEY COULD COVER IT UP BUT
THAT'S NOT PART OF THE PROPOSAL
.
>> YEAH.
SO YEAH I'M A LITTLE LEERY
OF THAT.
>> OK, THAT'S WHAT I WAS
THINKING TO SO SO I THINK
KURTAS WHAT YOU'RE HEARING IS
THAT THE WE JUST ARE KIND
OF STUCK WITH THE MATERIAL
CHOICES THAT THAT HAVE BEEN
DISCUSSED AT LEASE AND BUT IT
ALSO SOUNDS LIKE YOU'RE YOU'RE
WILLING TO KIND OF YOU KNOW WE
DON'T USUALLY LIKE TO KIND
OF DESIGN THE PROJECT BUT THIS
IS THIS IS SO SIMPLE THAT I
THINK YOU I WOULD SAY AT THE
VERY LEAST THE EXPECTATION
WOULD BE THAT IT WOULD BE
INFELD'S IS SOME SORT
OF FINISHED TRIM MATERIAL THAT
WOULD BE PAINTED AND IT WOULD
YOU COULD INFILL
THAT ABOVE AND
YOU KNOW, ABOVE THE WINDOW AND
THE SIZE OF THE WINDOW WITH YOU
KNOW, TAKE YOUR PICK CEDAR OR
YOU KNOW, SOME SORT OF FIBER
CEMENT LIKE PRODUCT.
BUT I MEAN THAT'S A THAT'S A
DISCUSSION FOR THE WHOLE
COMMISSION TO KIND OF .
OK, THANK YOU STEVE.
>> YEAH I SEE YOUR RAISED HAND
AND PLEASE PLEASE RESPOND TO
WHAT YOU'VE HEARD SO FAR.
>> CURTIS' YEAH.
SO THIS IS OUR FIRST EXPERIENCE
OF DEALING WITH THE HTC.
SURE.
CAPACITY WHEN IT COMES TO WE
DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TO EXPECT YOU
KNOW, TO PROVIDE SO TYPICALLY
FOR OUR OUR EGRESS WINDOWS WE
LEAVE IT TO THE HOMEOWNER TO
DECIDE ON WHAT THEY WANT TO
TRIM OUT THE WINDOWS WITH THE
THE THE THE TREATED LUMBER IS
NOT THE FINISHED PRODUCT.
IT IS JUST A ROUGH READING
MATERIAL FOR THE WINDOW.
NOW WE CAN CERTAINLY MEET
WHATEVER'S NECESSARY TO TO TAKE
CARE OF THIS HOMEOWNERS PROBLEM
AND TO SATISFY YOUR
REQUIREMENTS AS WELL.
SO THE GLASS WINDOW LIKE YOU
SAID, NOBODY'S MARRIED TO IT.
WE CAN YOU KNOW, IF YOU HAVE
SOMEWHERE IN TOWN THAT HAS ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY YEAR OLD
WEATHERED ROCK, I'M GLAD TO PUT
SOME OF IT THERE.
THERE ARE PRODUCTS OUT THERE
THAT ARE SIMILAR THAT BUT THEY
DON'T WEATHER THE SAME SO IT
WOULD LOOK NEW MAYBE WE COULD
MAKE IT LOOK OLDER BUT I
WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO FIND
SOMETHING THAT WOULD MATCH
UNLESS THERE'S SOMETHING THERE
IT'S FALLEN OFF THAT IS AROUND
BEHIND OR UNDERNEATH THE BAY
WINDOW AREA THAT WE COULD
REPURPOSE.
BUT CEDER ANYTHING ELSE.
YEAH I'M OPEN TO ANY SUGGESTION
JUST BECAUSE I DON'T KNOW WHAT
THE MATERIAL THE HOUSE IS MADE
UP I'M NEVER GOING TO FIND THE
PAINT COLOR TO MATCH THAT
FUCHSIA OR YOU KNOW I'M NOT FOR
SURE WHATEVER THE COLORS ARE ON
THE HOUSE BUT IT WOULD BE IT
WOULD BE EASY FOR ME TO PUT
SOMETHING THERE THAT'S MORE
WEATHER RESISTANT THAT'S NOT
TREATED LUMBER SO THE CEDAR IS
AN OPTION.
WE JUST WANT TO WORK WITHIN THE
CONFINES DC YEAH.
AND WITHIN THE FIRST NEED SO
I'M OPEN TO ANYTHING.
WE DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TO EXPECT
BECAUSE THIS IS OUR FIRST TIME.
YEAH.
EXPERIENCING THIS SO FORGIVE MY
YOU KNOW LIKE BABY GIRAFFE
WE'RE JUST KIND OF STUMBLING
AROUND HERE.
>> THAT'S THAT'S A GREAT
METAPHOR.
THANK YOU.
I'LL KEEP THAT IN MY HEAD NOW
FOR FOR THE REST OF THE
CONVERSATION THAT'S GREAT.
YEAH.
I APPRECIATE THAT.
THANK YOU FOR BEING OPEN AND
WE'RE WE'RE WE'LL TRY TO GET TO
A RESOLUTION QUICKLY HERE FOR
YOU.
I THINK THAT I WOULD JUST
PROPOSE TRIMMING THE THE WINDOW
IN A MATERIAL LIKE LIKE A WOOD
TRIM.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF WE IF
THERE'S ANYONE WANT TO PROPOSE
SOMETHING ELSE OR JUST HAVE IT
LET'S JUST NOT GO CRAZY HERE
BUT COULD WE JUST KIND OF GIVE
STAFF SOME GUIDANCE AND LEAVE
IT UP TO THEM?
>> IT FEELS A LITTLE STRANGE.
I KNOW THAT SOUNDS ON THE
TABLE.
I THIS I DON'T WANT TO DO THAT
EITHER AND I REALLY LIKE THAT
IDEA.
>> I THINK THAT THAT WOULD BE
FINE AND IT WAS THE PLACEMENT
OF THE WINDOW THAT BROUGHT IT
TO THE SEA AND WE CAN SORT
OF SORT OUT THE DETAILS WITH
CURTIS AND I DO THINK THAT THE
IDEA OF A TRANSAM WINDOW UP
ABOVE YOUR EGRESS WINDOW IS IS
A GOOD ONE, CURTIS BUT YEAH, I
THINK THAT WOULD THAT'S RIGHT.
>> I ALSO LIKE THE TRANSFER
WINDOW IDEA IF THAT'S NOT IN
THE BUDGET THOUGH I WOULD SAY
PIECE OF WOOD TRIM.
>> YEAH, JUST FINE AND ALSO
ESPECIALLY BECAUSE THERE'S
DUCKS IN THE WAY BUT YEAH THAT
I LIKE BOTH THOSE IDEAS.
DOES ANYONE WANT TO KIND OF ADD
TO THAT OR DO WE LIKE THAT IDEA
THAT'S OBVIOUSLY QUITE
BENEFICIAL FOR THE COMMISSION
SO I THINK WE'RE GOING TO LIKE
IT.
>> OK SO CURTIS' THE PLAN IS
THAT WE'RE GOING TO VOTE HERE
AND WE'RE GOING TO VOTE ON THE
THE MOTION THAT WAS MADE AND
NOTHING WAS IN THERE ABOUT ANY
TRIM AT ALL REALLY.
SO WHAT WE'RE GOING TO DO IS
WE'RE GOING TO VOTE AND AND
THEN YOU'RE GOING TO WORK WITH
WITH THE STAFF HERE AT THE CITY
TO DETERMINE EXACTLY WHAT'S
GOING TO KIND OF INFILL AROUND
THE WINDOW.
DOES THAT SOUND UNDERSTANDABLE
?
YES, THAT'S THAT'S MORE THAN
FAIR.
>> THANK YOU, SIR.
SO SORRY CURTIS WILL BE LOOKING
FOR STAFF WILL BE LOOKING FOR A
DRAWING SHOWING WHAT YOU'RE
WHAT YOU'D LIKE TO DO AFTER IF
YOU WANT TO TALK ABOUT MORE
THAT'S FINE TOO.
>> BUT BEFORE YOU'LL BE ABLE TO
GET A BUILDING PERMIT WE'LL
NEED TO SEE SOME SORT
OF DRAWING THAT SHOWS, YOU
KNOW, YOUR FINAL FINAL PLAN.
OK, VERY GOOD.
OK, SO NOW LET'S GO TO A VOTE.
>> SO YES, THERE'S SOMETHING
YEAH.
>> UH COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN
SOCIALITE VATICAN EDITION
THAT'S THE FIRST STEP ABOUT HOW
SHOULD WE YEAH.
>> YES.
YOU SHOULD ADD A CONDITION THAT
SAYS AND STAFF WILL APPROVE THE
DRAWINGS BEFORE PERMITS ARE
ISSUED.
I WILL DO THAT.
SO I'M DONE WITH A CONDITION
THAT THAT STAFF IS AFFORDED THE
OPPORTUNITY TO REVIEW AND
APPROVE FINAL DRAWINGS PRIOR TO
THE ISSUE ISSUANCE OF THE
PERMIT.
>> PERFECT.
OK, THANK YOU FOR THAT LITTLE
CLARIFICATION THAT'S
APPRECIATED.
>> OK ANYTHING ELSE BEFORE WE
GO TO A VOTE HERE LET'S DO IT
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED
PLEASE SAY NO.
THE MOTION CARRIED YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH CURTIS.
TAKE CARE.
>> THANK YOU
.
OK SO THAT WAS IT FOR HEARINGS
NEXT IS NEW BUSINESS.
.
WE DO HAVE ONE ITEM OF NEW
NEXT IS NEW BUSINESS.
BUSINESS AND THAT IS A REPORT
WE DO HAVE ONE ITEM OF NEW
FROM THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE.
BUSINESS AND THAT IS A REPORT
>> YEAH, THIS IS A BIG
FROM THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE.
COMMITTEE A COMMITTEE OF ONE
>> YEAH, THIS IS A BIG
AFTER SPEAKING WITH FOLKS ABOUT
COMMITTEE A COMMITTEE OF ONE
THEIR INTEREST AND WILLINGNESS
AFTER SPEAKING WITH FOLKS ABOUT
WHERE THIS COMMITTEE IS GOING
THEIR INTEREST AND WILLINGNESS
TO NOMINATE DAVE ROCHLIN TO
WHERE THIS COMMITTEE IS GOING
CONTINUE AS CHAIR COMMISSIONER
TO NOMINATE DAVE ROCHLIN TO
KAPLAN TO SERVE AS VICE CHAIR
CONTINUE AS CHAIR COMMISSIONER
AND COMMISSIONER CALDERON TO
KAPLAN TO SERVE AS VICE CHAIR
SERVE AS SECRETARY.
AND COMMISSIONER CALDERON TO
>> OK, NOW WHAT DO WE KNOW?
SERVE AS SECRETARY.
YOU VOTE ON IT, OK?
>> OK, NOW WHAT DO WE KNOW?
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
YOU VOTE ON IT, OK?
OF INVOLVEMENT NOMINATING
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
COMMITTEE'S PROPOSAL PLEASE SAY
OF INVOLVEMENT NOMINATING
YES.
COMMITTEE'S PROPOSAL PLEASE SAY
>> YES, YES.
YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
>> YES, YES.
OK, THE APPROVAL IS PASSED.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
>> CONGRATULATIONS OFFICERS.
OK, THE APPROVAL IS PASSED.
YEAH, GREAT.
>> CONGRATULATIONS OFFICERS.
>> THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
YEAH, GREAT.
SMITH.
>> THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
MUCH APPRECIATED IS DONE.
SMITH.
YES.
MUCH APPRECIATED IS DONE.
DON'T LEAVE THOUGH.
YES.
WE'VE GOT YOU OK NEXT IS
DON'T LEAVE THOUGH.
MINUTES AND WE HAVE WE HAVE TWO
WE'VE GOT YOU OK NEXT IS
MONTHS OF MINUTES BUT I
MINUTES AND WE HAVE WE HAVE TWO
ACTUALLY DIDN'T CHECK TO
MONTHS OF MINUTES BUT I
CONFIRM WHERE THEY WERE.
ACTUALLY DIDN'T CHECK TO
BOTH OF THOSE THEY'RE FOR
CONFIRM WHERE THEY WERE.
REVIEW.
BOTH OF THOSE THEY'RE FOR
WE ACTUALLY HAVE BRITNEY
REVIEW.
ALEXANDER JOINING US AT THE
WE ACTUALLY HAVE BRITNEY
PODIUM THERE AT THE UN THE
ALEXANDER JOINING US AT THE
COMMISSION THIS MONTH.
PODIUM THERE AT THE UN THE
SO IT'S GREAT TO GREAT TO HAVE
COMMISSION THIS MONTH.
YOU HERE.
SO IT'S GREAT TO GREAT TO HAVE
THANK YOU ONCE AGAIN FOR
YOU HERE.
PROVIDING THE MINUTES AND THE
THANK YOU ONCE AGAIN FOR
AGENDA FOR THIS MEETING.
PROVIDING THE MINUTES AND THE
THERE'S A LOT OF WORK THAT GOES
AGENDA FOR THIS MEETING.
ON BEHIND THE SCENES BY STAFF
THERE'S A LOT OF WORK THAT GOES
AND WE REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
ON BEHIND THE SCENES BY STAFF
>> SO THANK YOU ALL ALL WHO ARE
AND WE REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
PRESENT.
>> SO THANK YOU ALL ALL WHO ARE
>> OK, SO I'M NOT HEARING ANY
PRESENT.
CORRECTIONS TO THE MINUTES SO
>> OK, SO I'M NOT HEARING ANY
WE WILL SAY THAT THOSE ARE
CORRECTIONS TO THE MINUTES SO
THOSE MINUTES ARE APPROVED AS
WE WILL SAY THAT THOSE ARE
PRESENTED.
THOSE MINUTES ARE APPROVED AS
>> SO THEN WE'LL MOVE ON TO
PRESENTED.
REPORTS FROM COMMISSIONERS.
>> SO THEN WE'LL MOVE ON TO
WOULD ANY COMMISSIONER LIKE TO
REPORTS FROM COMMISSIONERS.
MAKE A REPORT?
WOULD ANY COMMISSIONER LIKE TO
I DON'T KNOW IF WE HAVE ANY
MAKE A REPORT?
REPORTS THIS MONTH.
I DON'T KNOW IF WE HAVE ANY
>> IT DOESN'T SOUND LIKE WE DO
REPORTS THIS MONTH.
OK.
>> IT DOESN'T SOUND LIKE WE DO
>> I THOUGHT MAYBE COMMISSIONER
OK.
CARTER HAD A REPORT THAT YOU'RE
>> I THOUGHT MAYBE COMMISSIONER
JUST WAITING TO HEAR ABOUT
CARTER HAD A REPORT THAT YOU'RE
THAT.
JUST WAITING TO HEAR ABOUT
OK, VERY GOOD.
THAT.
>> AND WHAT ABOUT REPORTS FROM
OK, VERY GOOD.
STAFF?
>> AND WHAT ABOUT REPORTS FROM
>> HOW ABOUT ASSIGNMENTS?
STAFF?
DID I SKIP THAT?
>> HOW ABOUT ASSIGNMENTS?
YES.
DID I SKIP THAT?
LET'S GO TO ASSIGNMENT.
YES.
THAT'S IMPORTANT.
LET'S GO TO ASSIGNMENT.
SO THE IT'LL BE THE REVIEW
THAT'S IMPORTANT.
COMMITTEE.
SO THE IT'LL BE THE REVIEW
IT'S THE DECEMBER MEETING.
COMMITTEE.
IT'S GOING TO BE MONDAY,
IT'S THE DECEMBER MEETING.
DECEMBER 8TH.
IT'S GOING TO BE MONDAY,
>> IT'LL BE A NOON REVIEW.
DECEMBER 8TH.
SO ALL THOSE WHO LIKE THE NOON
>> IT'LL BE A NOON REVIEW.
REVIEWS, THEY'VE GOT ONE FOR
SO ALL THOSE WHO LIKE THE NOON
YOU.
REVIEWS, THEY'VE GOT ONE FOR
AND THE MEETING ITSELF IS
YOU.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER ELEVENTH.
AND THE MEETING ITSELF IS
SO NOW'S A GOOD TIME TO CHECK
THURSDAY, DECEMBER ELEVENTH.
YOUR CALENDAR AND JUST MAKE
SO NOW'S A GOOD TIME TO CHECK
SURE YOU'RE EVEN TO BE AROUND
YOUR CALENDAR AND JUST MAKE
ON THE ELEVENTH.
SURE YOU'RE EVEN TO BE AROUND
FEEL FREE TO SPEAK UP IF YOU'RE
ON THE ELEVENTH.
NOT.
FEEL FREE TO SPEAK UP IF YOU'RE
>> BUT ANY ANY TAKERS VOLUNTEER
NOT.
FANTASTIC.
>> BUT ANY ANY TAKERS VOLUNTEER
>> YOU GOT TO DID YOU SEE THAT
FANTASTIC.
CHIP ON THIS ONE?
>> YOU GOT TO DID YOU SEE THAT
>> OH, YOU THANK YOU.
CHIP ON THIS ONE?
>> THANK YOU BOTH.
>> OH, YOU THANK YOU.
FANTASTIC.
>> THANK YOU BOTH.
OK, WELL LET'S CIRCLE BACK
FANTASTIC.
AROUND TO REPORTS FROM STAFF.
OK, WELL LET'S CIRCLE BACK
DO WE HAVE ANYTHING THIS THIS
AROUND TO REPORTS FROM STAFF.
MONTH OR WE'RE GOING TO WAIT
DO WE HAVE ANYTHING THIS THIS
FOR TI WE HAVE A FEW MINUTES
MONTH OR WE'RE GOING TO WAIT
POLARIZED
.
>> THANK YOU FOR THAT.
OK, NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO
CONCERNS OF COMMISSIONERS
ANYTHING GOING ON.
>> OK VERY GOOD.
ARE THERE ANY COMMUNICATIONS
THIS MONTH TO THE COMMISSIONER
.
>> OK VERY GOOD.
SO THEN WE WILL ADJOURN THE
NOVEMBER 13TH, 2025 DC MEETING
746 THANK YOU ALL MUCH
APPRECIATED.
>> YEAH THAT WAS QUICK